add sdxl to prompt weighting (#4439)
huggingface/diffusers: docs/source/en/using-diffusers/weighted_prompts.md

## How to do prompt-weighting in Diffusers

We believe the role of `diffusers` is to be a toolbox that provides essential features that enable other projects, such as [InvokeAI](https://github.com/invoke-ai/InvokeAI) or [diffuzers](https://github.com/abhishekkrthakur/diffuzers), to build powerful UIs. In order to support arbitrary methods to manipulate prompts, `diffusers` exposes a [`prompt_embeds`](https://huggingface.co/docs/diffusers/en/api/pipelines/stable_diffusion/text2img#diffusers.StableDiffusionPipeline.__call__.prompt_embeds) function argument and an optional [`negative_prompt_embeds`](https://huggingface.co/docs/diffusers/en/api/pipelines/stable_diffusion/text2img#diffusers.StableDiffusionPipeline.__call__.negative_prompt_embeds) function argument to many pipelines such as [`StableDiffusionPipeline`], [`StableDiffusionControlNetPipeline`], [`StableDiffusionXLPipeline`], allowing to directly pass the "prompt-weighted"/scaled text embeddings to the pipeline.

> The [compel library](https://github.com/damian0815/compel) provides an easy way to emphasize or de-emphasize portions of the prompt for you. We strongly recommend it instead of preparing the embeddings yourself.

Author: ```suggestion
The [compel library](https://github.com/damian0815/compel) provides an easy way to emphasize or de-emphasize portions of the prompt for you. We strongly recommend it instead of preparing the embeddings yourself.

Let's first make sure we have the newest version of compel installed:

``
pip install --upgrade compel
``
```

Also, please check out the documentation of the [compel](https://github.com/damian0815/compel) library for 
more information.

### StableDiffusionXLPipeline

For StableDiffusionXL we need to not only pass `prompt_embeds` (and optionally `negative_prompt_embeds`), but also [`pooled_prompt_embeds`](https://huggingface.co/docs/diffusers/en/api/pipelines/stable_diffusion/stable_diffusion_xl#diffusers.StableDiffusionXLInpaintPipeline.__call__.pooled_prompt_embeds) and optionally [`negative_pooled_prompt_embeds`](https://huggingface.co/docs/diffusers/en/api/pipelines/stable_diffusion/stable_diffusion_xl#diffusers.StableDiffusionXLInpaintPipeline.__call__.negative_pooled_prompt_embeds). 
In addition, [`StableDiffusionXLPipeline`] has two tokenizers and two text encoders which both need to be used to weight the prompt.

> Luckily, [`compel`](https://github.com/damian0815/compel) takes care of SDXL's special needs - all we have to do is to pass both tokenizers and text encoders to the `Compel` class:

Author: ```suggestion
Luckily, [`compel`](https://github.com/damian0815/compel) takes care of SDXL's special needs - all we have to do is to pass both tokenizers and text encoders to the `Compel` class.

Let's first make sure we have the newest version of compel installed:

```
pip install --upgrade compel
```

Now we can run an example.

Also, please check out the documentation of the [compel](https://github.com/damian0815/compel) library for 
more information.

### StableDiffusionXLPipeline

For StableDiffusionXL we need to not only pass `prompt_embeds` (and optionally `negative_prompt_embeds`), but also [`pooled_prompt_embeds`](https://huggingface.co/docs/diffusers/en/api/pipelines/stable_diffusion/stable_diffusion_xl#diffusers.StableDiffusionXLInpaintPipeline.__call__.pooled_prompt_embeds) and optionally [`negative_pooled_prompt_embeds`](https://huggingface.co/docs/diffusers/en/api/pipelines/stable_diffusion/stable_diffusion_xl#diffusers.StableDiffusionXLInpaintPipeline.__call__.negative_pooled_prompt_embeds). 
In addition, [`StableDiffusionXLPipeline`] has two tokenizers and two text encoders which both need to be used to weight the prompt.
Luckily, [`compel`](https://github.com/damian0815/compel) takes care of SDXL's special needs - all we have to do is to pass both tokenizers and text encoders to the `Compel` class.

Let's first make sure we have the newest version of compel installed:

> ``

Author: ```suggestion
```py
```

pip install --upgrade compel

> ``

Author: ```suggestion
```
```

Now we can run an example.

```py
from compel import Compel, ReturnedEmbeddingsType
from diffusers import DiffusionPipeline

pipeline = DiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained("stabilityai/stable-diffusion-xl-base-1.0", variant="fp16", use_safetensors=True, torch_dtype=torch.float16).to("cuda")

> compel = Compel(tokenizer=[pipeline.tokenizer, pipeline.tokenizer_2] , text_encoder=[pipeline.text_encoder, pipeline.text_encoder_2], returned_embeddings_type=ReturnedEmbeddingsType.PENULTIMATE_HIDDEN_STATES_NON_NORMALIZED, requires_pooled=[False, True])

Reviewer: Can we indent it please?

Reviewer: Also, let's leave a link to what `ReturnedEmbeddingsType.PENULTIMATE_HIDDEN_STATES_NON_NORMALIZED` means otherwise it might get confusing for the readers.

```

> Let's try our example from amove again. We use the same seed for both prompts and upweight ball by a factor of 1.5 for the first 
> generation and downweight ball by 40% for the second prompt.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's try our example from above again. We use the same seed for both prompts and upweight ball by a factor of 1.5 for the first 
prompt and downweight ball by 40% for the second prompt.
```

```py
# upweight "ball"
prompt = ["a red cat playing with a (ball)1.5", "a red cat playing with a (ball)0.6"]
conditioning, pooled = compel(prompt)

# generate image
generator = [torch.Generator().manual_seed(33) for _ in range(len(prompt))]
images = pipeline(prompt_embeds=conditioning, pooled_prompt_embeds=pooled, generator=generator, num_inference_steps=30).images
```

Let's have a look at the result.

> **Image 1**:

Reviewer 2: I think it'd look nicer to compare the images side-by-side (you can copy the code [here](https://play.tailwindcss.com/MnCgnarTOb)).

Author: Thanks a lot

> **Image 1**:
> 
> ![img](https://huggingface.co/datasets/hf-internal-testing/diffusers-images/resolve/main/compel/sdxl_ball1.png)
> 
> **Image 2**:
> 
> ![img](https://huggingface.co/datasets/hf-internal-testing/diffusers-images/resolve/main/compel/sdxl_ball2.png)

Author: ```suggestion
<div class="flex gap-4">
  <div>
    <img class="rounded-xl" src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/hf-internal-testing/diffusers-images/resolve/main/compel/sdxl_ball1.png"/>
    <figcaption class="mt-2 text-center text-sm text-gray-500">"a red cat playing with a (ball)1.5"</figcaption>
  </div>
  <div>
    <img class="rounded-xl" src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/hf-internal-testing/diffusers-images/resolve/main/compel/sdxl_ball2.png"/>
    <figcaption class="mt-2 text-center text-sm text-gray-500">a red cat playing with a (ball)0.6</figcaption>
  </div>
</div>
```

> We can see that the ball is almost completely gone from the second image while it's clearly visible in the first image.

Author: ```suggestion
We can see that the ball is almost completely gone on the right image while it's clearly visible on the left image.
```

Also, please check out the documentation of the [compel](https://github.com/damian0815/compel) library for 
more information.

### StableDiffusionXLPipeline

For StableDiffusionXL we need to not only pass `prompt_embeds` (and optionally `negative_prompt_embeds`), but also [`pooled_prompt_embeds`](https://huggingface.co/docs/diffusers/en/api/pipelines/stable_diffusion/stable_diffusion_xl#diffusers.StableDiffusionXLInpaintPipeline.__call__.pooled_prompt_embeds) and optionally [`negative_pooled_prompt_embeds`](https://huggingface.co/docs/diffusers/en/api/pipelines/stable_diffusion/stable_diffusion_xl#diffusers.StableDiffusionXLInpaintPipeline.__call__.negative_pooled_prompt_embeds). 
In addition, [`StableDiffusionXLPipeline`] has two tokenizers and two text encoders which both need to be used to weight the prompt.
Luckily, [`compel`](https://github.com/damian0815/compel) takes care of SDXL's special needs - all we have to do is to pass both tokenizers and text encoders to the `Compel` class.

> Let's first make sure we have the newest version of compel installed:
> 
> ```
> pip install --upgrade compel
> ```
> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

Also, please check out the documentation of the [compel](https://github.com/damian0815/compel) library for 
more information.

### StableDiffusionXLPipeline

For StableDiffusionXL we need to not only pass `prompt_embeds` (and optionally `negative_prompt_embeds`), but also [`pooled_prompt_embeds`](https://huggingface.co/docs/diffusers/en/api/pipelines/stable_diffusion/stable_diffusion_xl#diffusers.StableDiffusionXLInpaintPipeline.__call__.pooled_prompt_embeds) and optionally [`negative_pooled_prompt_embeds`](https://huggingface.co/docs/diffusers/en/api/pipelines/stable_diffusion/stable_diffusion_xl#diffusers.StableDiffusionXLInpaintPipeline.__call__.negative_pooled_prompt_embeds). 
In addition, [`StableDiffusionXLPipeline`] has two tokenizers and two text encoders which both need to be used to weight the prompt.
Luckily, [`compel`](https://github.com/damian0815/compel) takes care of SDXL's special needs - all we have to do is to pass both tokenizers and text encoders to the `Compel` class.

Let's first make sure we have the newest version of compel installed:

```
pip install --upgrade compel
```

> Now we can run an example.

Author: ```suggestion
```
